1. Companies are more committed than ever to meet science-based targets
Companies around the globe have a particular responsibility to take action against climate change, and more corporations are committing to ethical, sustainable climate initiatives. 

Most notably, companies like 3M and Volvo are committing to science-based targets that promote a Corporate Net-Zero Standard. 

This standard provides a clear framework for large companies to set science-based net-zero targets, and the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) organization offers a wealth of resources and training to support committed corporations.

The Net Zero Standard doesn’t just define “net zero” and identify solutions. It makes sustainable initiatives achievable by breaking the standard down into four key components for net zero targets:

Short-term targets set science-based, emission-reduction initiatives designed to roughly halve emissions in conformance with corporate value chain (scope 3) accounting and reporting standards. 
Long-term targets to cut as many emissions as feasibly possible, aiming for an over 90 per cent reduction of scope 3 emissions in conformance accounting and reporting standards.
Neutralization of residual emissions by using permanent carbon removal, proper storage, and carbon credits to counterbalance the impact of remaining emissions after long-term emission-reduction targets are achieved. 
Beyond value chain mitigation (BVCM), an immediate investment into emission reduction and removal outside of corporate value chains, in addition to near-term and long-term science-based targets. 
These are tough targets, but 2022 saw an 80 per cent increase in companies committing to ambitious goals. Statistics the following year found that nearly 50 per cent of Fortune 500 companies had committed to one or more significant climate initiatives. 

There’s still major room for growth to reach these goals as a planet, but increased commitments and straightforward standards are a powerful step forward. 

It’s also not just a problem for big business. Smaller businesses can do their part by opting for sustainable materials, like cafes using FSC certified paper for cup sleeves and certified Fairtrade coffee beans. Offices might also update to high-efficiency appliances and LED lighting or opt for work-from-home policies that reduce commute times. 

For ways to make work more sustainable, check out Science-based targets, FSC certifications, and local networks for guidance and support. 