2. Carbon-zero technologies are fully available
The UN’s Paris Agreement aims to reach net-zero carbon dioxide emissions by 2050 to manage the Earth’s rising temperatures, which requires global collaboration. Luckily, the technologies we need already exist. 

Currently, the energy sector generates three-quarters of global greenhouse gas emissions. Clean energy is the cornerstone for decarbonization, and it has to be widely available and abundant enough to cover the increasing demand for affordable energy. A mix of zero-carbon energy sources include:

Bioenergy that uses organic substances like plant and animal matter to produce fuel, like biodiesel or ethanol made from vegetable oils and fats. 
Renewables, including solar, wind, geothermal and hydropower sources that come from natural, replenishable resources.
Green hydrogen-based fuels are produced with an electrolysis process using renewable energy. This provides energy for heavy industry and freight transportation needs that renewables alone can’t effectively manage.
Clean energy sources are essential, but they only work when the global community adapts its behaviours to prioritize carbon-zero initiatives and reduce consumption and demand. 

This includes shifting to electric vehicles for personal and professional use, adapting building designs so they’re carbon-zero-ready, and upgrading existing appliances and structures to high-efficiency systems. 

Advancements to existing technologies like improved battery efficiency also promotes the shift to zero-carbon electric energy sources to reduce global demand for oil and fossil fuels. A shift in consumer behaviours further promotes industrial change, helping create a clean energy Earth by 2050. 

Ultimately, it’s up to governments to align with the UN’s Net Zero Coalition and set policies that promote compliance. Everyone has a responsibility to do some of the heavy lifting and create collective change to reduce tha trajectory of climate change. 

Individually, everyone has the power to make personal changes that can influence social movements and pressure agencies to transition to existing carbon-zero technologies sooner rather than later. 